---
title: "Supreme Court Daily Digest [29 October 2025]"
date: 2025-10-29T20:57:26.000+05:30
slug: 29102025
tags: [Daily Digest]
---

please note:

Dear all, we are sharing Daily Digests of our notes of Supreme Court judgments to our 1000+ subscribers who are Judges, lawyers, law professors and law students. If you are our subscriber, just sign in to read this. If you are not a subscriber, please register yourself @ citecase.in and we will contact you on whatsapp within a few hours to complete the subscription process.

[Register Here](https://citecase.in/register?ref=caseciter.com)

what you will learn from today's digest

Did the Supreme Court, in the review order/judgment of **Siddamsetty Infra Projects (P) Ltd. v. Katta Sujatha Reddy**, specifically hold that the amended provisions would govern suits instituted prior to the 2018 Amendment?

Under Section 149 of the Indian Penal Code, is it necessary for each member of the unlawful assembly to have committed a specific overt act?

When is interference with an order of acquittal justified?

Is a plea regarding the maintainability of a suit still allowed to be raised in appeal, even if not raised in the written statement?

Is the suit for specific performance of a contract in teeth of termination of the contract maintainable without seeking a declaration ?  
  
Whether any deviation from the prescribed route as per the permit granted by the state transportation authority, would impact on the liability of the Insurance Company for any accident which may take place while the vehicle is on such a deviated route?

Why is denying compensation to a motor accident victim or their dependents due to the accident occurring outside the bounds of the vehicle's permit and insurance policy considered "offensive to the sense of justice"?

Why would expecting the insurer to pay compensation to a third party be considered unfair when the event is clearly outside the agreed bounds established in the insurance contract?

In cases where the guilt of the accused is sought to be established only by circumstantial evidence, if two views are possible on the evidence adduced, which view should be adopted?

If a plaintiff is not privy to an instrument relating to their property, what type of declaration may they seek?