---
title: "Supreme Court Daily Digest [27 October 2025]"
date: 2025-10-27T20:40:15.000+05:30
slug: 27102025
tags: [Daily Digest]
---

note:

We are sharing Daily Digests of our notes of Supreme Court judgments to our 1000+ subscribers who are Judges, lawyers, law professors and law students. If you are our subscriber, just sign in to read this. If you are not a subscriber, please register yourself @ citecase.in and we will contact you on whatsapp within a few hours to complete the subscription process. This costs you just **₹**2 per day.

[Register Here](https://citecase.in/register?ref=caseciter.com)

what you will learn from today's digest !

1. Can Special Courts entertain an application for interim custody or release of a seized conveyance in NDPS cases?
2. If contraband was recovered from the possession of the agent of the Vehicle owner, can the application of the Vehicle seeking interim custody of the Vehicle be entertained?
3. Who has the power to determine whether or not a seized conveyance is liable to confiscation in NDPS cases?
4. Can a suit alleging continuing infringement of patent and design rights can be said to contemplate urgent relief within the meaning of Section 12A Commercial Courts Act, notwithstanding certain delay in its institution?
5. What are the legal tests for the purposes of rejection of the plaint for non-compliance of Section 12A Commercial Courts Act?
6. What Is A Plea Of Demurrer?
7. Is the doctrine of party autonomy considered limitless in arbitration proceedings?
8. How to apply doctrine of severance to an arbitration award?